[Music]
my name is Pete Peterson and I am the
very grateful Dean of Pepperdine s
Graduate School of Public Policy and
it's a delight to welcome you all here
to the California Club for the 2019
spring
Patricia taglioferro Dean's
Distinguished Lecture
with dr. Victor Davis Hanson this event
is made possible because of the
foresight and support of one dr. Gus
taglio fairy who endowed this lecture
series with the main theme of connecting
the world's great ideas with current
events over the last two years we've
welcomed amazing speakers and thinkers
to our Malibu campus from dr. Neil
Ferguson dr. charles murray and dennis
prager but tonight for the first time we
are bringing this lecturer here to
downtown los angeles or as someone told
me in the foyer area the belly of the
beast as the Dean of the School of
Public Policy I see my job is not only
preparing future leaders for America's
government business sector and nonprofit
sector but I also see that we have an
extremely important role to play
particularly here in Southern California
with bringing speakers of the caliber of
dr. Hanson to places like this place
here at the California Club for too long
Los Angeles in Southern California
especially in the academic world have
squelched off speeches and thinkers and
leaders those like dr. Hanson or dr.
Ferguson or dr. Murray from speaking but
I really do see it as part of our
mission at the school of public policy
to be that beacon of light to bring what
we call viewpoint diversity not only to
Southern California but also to academia
more broadly I thought about this most
typically when I was dropping my
daughter off my daughter is seven years
old she sings in a choral program that
meets at UCLA and in dropping her off at
the Herb Alpert music hall there on the
campus of UCLA I noticed that when I
came back to pick her up they had a lot
of video screen monitors up around in
the different hallways and all the
monitors were merchandising they were
promoting the counseling services that
are available to UCLA students and I
noticed when I was looking through the
different types of counseling services
that they all had the same website that
you could click on and go to and that
website was UCLA dot edu slash coping
with the election now at the School of
Public Policy we don't believe we have
to cope with this election we believe at
the same time that the 2016 election was
something that said quite a bit about
America and unfortunately the
perspectives that we hear so much on
America's college campuses are that
people like maybe some of you who have
supported the president are really being
made to squelch or hold your opinions
there was a survey done in 2018 by a
nonpartisan group researching 8,000
American voters across the political
spectrum and the question they asked
them was what is the greatest problem
facing America's culture today and the
number-one point of agreement across the
political spectrum was political
correctness the feeling that people had
to squelch their opinions because they
feared how they were going to be
responded to now I believe as an
academic leader that our job at
Pepperdine is not so much to respond in
an aggressive or at agonistic way our
job is to respond in a thoughtful way
and that's why this lecture series
is so important so please join me in
thanking the person who made it possible
dr. Gus taglioferro
[Applause]
one of the points that we drive home to
our graduate students on our campus in
Malibu is that life is not simple life
is not easy and for all the taglines and
phrases that we hear in our political
life today life is complex it is nuanced
this book that dr. Hanson has written
and will talk about here with you this
evening though called the case for Trump
makes a very nuanced argument for the
importance of this president for this
point in time it's important as policy
schools in particular those who are
sending people out into the political
world that they understand that certain
times call for certain kinds of people
and only a world-class historian can
bring that kind of perspective not an
armchair pundit and certainly notes not
someone who hasn't studied our history
not only American history but world
history and so that's why I was so
excited to welcome back dr. Victor Davis
Hanson to give tonight's Patricia
tagliaferro lecture what he has done in
this book and you will hear is to take a
very important historical event that
we've all lived through in this 2016
election and place it into a historical
context that I will wager to say you
have never heard before but one that
really needs to be heard more and more
that's the kind of work that we do at
the Graduate policy schools we take
history seriously and we take people
like President Trump seriously and we
take people like dr. Victor Davis Hanson
seriously so without any further ado
please join me in welcoming our 2019
Patricia tagliaferro Dean's
Distinguished Lecture the Martin and
Ellie Anderson senior fellow at the
Hoover Institution dr. Victor Davis
Hanson
thank you very much for that kind
introduction and nice crowd large I felt
that what same way you did about the
belly of the beast as I was driving up
the 99 the i-5 and from Apocalypse Now
upriver I thought I'd speak for about 35
minutes then we'll have some questions
if you'd like there was a lot of ways to
explain the 2006 election and you had to
come up with some exegesis because Trump
was the first person we've ever elected
or ever nominated without political or
military experience and one of the
things I think was strange about it is
that the so called deplorable Z
redeemable what Obama called the
clingers John McCain called the crazies
you may know them as a tea party that
Reagan Democrats a silent majority the
tea party people
the message was originally tailored to
them and then they sort of absorbed the
Republican Party and all of you even if
you were not of the same class when what
was the message it was their message was
that globalization is a great thing it's
it's brought eyeglasses to the Amazon
and antibiotics to the Sudan it's
wonderful but it was asymmetrical in the
United States if you had muscular labor
or you produced real things anything
that could be duplicated or xeroxed
overseas it was and then people like
most of us in the room who had what we
do could not be Xerox we had suddenly a
market or an audience of seven billion
people or as a person who was laid off
on the upright Harvester plant in Selma
when I was growing up the canneries the
trail of the fruit off trailer whatever
the manufacturing or food processing was
there were only four of us out of our
high school rural school that went to
college and then why would you when the
wages are so high they thought it we
were crazy when you could go right at 18
and buy a house at 22 and have three
kids and you know the whole thing by the
time you're 30
there was no pajama boy or life of Julia
in those days because you didn't need it
so as one person that upright harvester
said to me well how would you like it if
a guy from Korea wrote your columns and
I said well they can't he said oh they
can't can they what do you get for them
and I explained he said well why would
why can't they do it for a quarter just
like this harvester plant that went
overseas and what makes you exempt and
what I'm getting at is a lot of people
in the conservative Republican
establishment accepted that argument
almost as if people had taken opiates in
joint driven out industry rather than
industry leaving for a variety of
reasons and they taking open they
reversed cause and effect and the more
that people started to voice those
complaints about the interior of the
country the more people that didn't live
there started to say you know what that
argument doesn't apply to me in
particular but it does in the abstract
because what they're saying is an elite
a liberal progressive elite is have
created a new party a very poor and very
wealthy when they've turned their backs
on the middle class and their signature
ideology is we are never subject to the
ramifications of our own ideology we
don't like teachers we do not like
charter schools we love teachers unions
but our kids get to go to private school
that's where the deplorable Zoar the
inner-city kids we don't believe in
water transfers we want to let 50
million acre-feet go out to the ocean
but by god we have to have that Hetch
Hetchy water for san francisco we
believe in 28 cents a kilowatt so that
we are very sparse in our use
electricity is very expensive and we're
careful in how we use it but you know we
live on the coast we don't live in
Fresno where it's a hundred and ten and
Hispanic people are cramming into
Walmart for the free air conditioning
and so that was the idea and so people
started to see the deplorable argument
they said you know I can be a
millionaire I can be but this is how
they operate Mark Zuckerberg has got a
big estate and he's lecturing us that
has a big wall on it he's lecturing us
about walls it doesn't make any sense
and people got angrier and angrier
they say there's not a problem with
crime or homelessness but they had the
estates that shielded him from the
ramifications of progressive social
policy I found that it was asked to
speak not too long ago in Pacific
Heights in San Francisco and all of a
sudden one night I thought I'm gonna
walk up from the Tenderloin I got an
hour and I noticed as I got higher up
there were fewer homeless and there were
no police but there were private
security people who stopped me I thought
wow I'd be for homelessness too if I
didn't live down on Market Street and
that's sort of when you look at the New
Democratic Party that's what it is
it's people who who pontificate and
sermonize and her self-righteous in the
abstract and Trump saw that and that was
the great irony wasn't it because he was
a billionaire on Manhattan night and so
he tailored a message that 16 brilliant
candidates and they were much better
than we'd seen before in a Republican
primary who had much more experience a
Scott Walker Marco Rubio Ted Cruz very
successful CEO Carly Fiorina ben Carson
every walk of life diversity everything
and yet they could not come up with a
strategy to win the electoral college or
at least in them the voters in that
electoral college in the primaries and
Trump took a traditional Republican
message after all he was for tax cuts he
was for deregulation he was for more
energy development he was for strict
constructionist judges he was for the
restoration of deterrence abroad he was
for increased defense budget but then so
was Jeb Bush and so was you know Marco
Rubio so he tweaked it with this theme
that we talked about globalization and
the asymmetrical effects on people who
were really suffering in the interior
and by extension how that ideology
affects all of us and he said if you're
gonna go overseas and you're gonna get
into an optional military engagement
make sure you translate tactical victory
in the ground otherwise Afghanistan is
not going to result in strategic
resolution in a cost-benefit analysis
like it or not nobody from the
Council on Foreign Relations none of the
neocons of which I have supported could
make a counter-argument so he any being
Trump being Trump he personalizes I'm
not gonna send your son over to blank
blank country for somebody's you know
pie-in-the-sky theory and then he said
you know you don't have sovereignty if
you don't have a border Jeb Bush was
saying illegal immigrations an act of
love but Trump was saying a lot of you
live in areas that are impacted when you
bring millions of people and they're
neither legal and that the omission is
not based on Merrick Radek criteria but
proximity to the borders and it's not
diverse and it's not measured and you
the hosts don't no longer believe in
inner marriage and the Melting plot an
integration assimilation you have the
menu for catastrophe everybody laughed
at him said he was a native was
approached and of course Trump being
Trump conveying that message was pretty
tough in his his Naaman clay Chur and
vocabulary but that was another issue
that none of the Republicans wanted to
touch and it resonated with the
deplorable then third he said
deindustrialization is not written in
stone if you look at all the criteria
the United States should be number one
it's got the best educational higher
educational system in the world it's
energy natural gas especially now from
fracking is cheaper than Germany or
Japan centrally located there was a
reason why we supplied about 80 percent
of the vehicles in World War two in
other countries we've supplied 95
percent of the aviation fuel the entire
war we built more ships at the end of
the war then all the navies put together
and we haven't changed were the same
people we just have policies that have
been asymmetrical everybody said look
and I'm as at the Hoover Institution and
I thought now we're gonna this is gonna
get interesting because if you're going
to stop
China's six hundred billion dollar trade
are you gonna address the asymmetrical
patterns of a seventy billion dollar
trade surplus with Germany or 69 billion
with Japan you're gonna have to mention
the T word tariffs and if you do that
you're gonna be toast in the Republican
Party he did
and that was the only quiver you have if
you want to address that asymmetry
everybody that said that he'll never get
the nomination if he did and he did and
then finally he had another message and
that was China with China we were all
told was fated to take over the world
billion people their market capitalism
if you're Tom Friedman you go over there
and you say wow they've got high-speed
rail there airports or they've hit on
authoritarian capitalism that has a
green tweak is wonderful and none of us
believe that we all said that the
history of authoritarian societies as
they reach a point whether it's
Mussolini's at Italy or Franco Spain
they hit a point and then they become
themselves over bureaucratic crony
capitalism and they're not as efficient
as an open transparent society and Trump
said we can beat these big beat of
course in trumpian vocabulary it's a
binary world in his way we can beat
these people if we all hang together and
we may we treat them the way they treat
us and the Republican Party had said
almost
well we're we believe in Sermon on the
Mount we we turned the other cheek and
Trump said no we don't they're out the
cheetahs and that that was a that was a
message that appealed to people in the
Midwest and that's where the election
was going to be decided wasn't gonna be
decided here wasn't gonna be cited in
Texas everybody forgot that all these
people who were the losers of
globalization's were the winners of the
electoral college I'm talking about
Wisconsin Pennsylvania Ohio Iowa Indiana
Michigan North Carolina and to extent
Florida
nothing nothing else mattered why didn't
those geniuses know that they didn't
understand that and furthermore when
Trump went to those rallies you could
see what he was doing if you if you
tuned out all the vituperative attacks
on him he was basically saying to the
country the people in this hallway are
the four six million who didn't show up
to vote for John McCain they didn't show
up to vote for Mitt Romney and if they
all come out we can take this blue state
blue wall and we can flip it not by much
but we don't need to 80,000 ninety
I don't care if California votes me you
know votes four million in front of
Hillary Clinton I don't care if I lose
the popular vote we can win with these
people and so everybody said oh wow
Trump's got these Neanderthal rallies
same old thing marathon Stalin like
speeches but he was bringing people out
of the woodwork and he flipped those
said I have a friend who likes to tease
me and every time he sends me an email
but once a month he sends me that the
video download of Rachel Maddow unknown
on election night and he keeps always
saying tell me that you didn't download
it this time and every time I get it I
read it again and I forgot I mean I look
at it she's in tears
it's disbelief it's like the world
turned upside down after the Battle of
Yorktown if you're a Tory it's it's
amazing so he did that and he took a
traditional message and then he tweaked
it as well
by telling the Republican Party on not
Mitt Romney I'm not going to give a pass
to Candy Crowley when she hijacks the
debate I'm not John McCain it's gonna
rule out Reverend Wright I'm not Bob
Dole I'm not George W Bush is gonna say
in 2006 I got to be presidential I
cannot respond to Michael Moore etc I if
you want to fight and want to get down
in the wrestling ring you're gonna get
dirty but I've already been there in
real life and World Wrestling Federation
and I don't care and that message to a
lot of Republicans many of us in this
room maybe who otherwise were turned off
by his personality thought you know what
I'm so exasperated I want to cut this
leash let the Pope pitbull go in the
right direction and do to them what
they're doing to us as I mentioned to
another group
he was sort of lee atwater come back
alive that had saved George HW Bush's
campaign against the caucus Dukakis came
out of the 88 Democratic convention with
an 18 point lead and when they got done
with Boston Harbor Willie Harbor it was
pretty tough stuff the out water
apologized later but they won and after
that people said we never want to win
like that again and they didn't they
didn't really win except for George W
Bush and so that was a message that
people resonated they wanted somebody to
say enough is enough
they wanted a Clinton version of the
Trump version of the war room that
Clinton had used and they didn't want
you know John McCain type of let's lose
nobly whether then winnowed Lee they
wanted to win ugly and they did and then
ii just when we thought that this was
going to be a really dirty candidate and
we had all of his sleeves on MSNBC and
CNN about his marriages and access
hollywood except except it it was not so
simple because he started touring the
country and he started sounding
empathetic our miners our vets our
farmers I never heard Romney say our
once maybe it was a cheap trick but he
was able to radiate empathy when he said
the other night at they're all at the
White House Correspondents Dinner I'd
rather be with you any day of the week I
mean that that was the message he gave
people said Wow how can he be empathetic
he's Donald Trump and then as I as I
said earlier every time I hear Barack
Obama speak dependent his accident
depends on the audience and which he's
speaking here we go south of the Mex
mason-dixon line I'm so tired today Joe
Biden goes to an African American on
they're gonna put you in Chains and
everybody got sick of that John Kerry
and his camouflage Mike Dukakis in his
tank
even the Republican primary candidates
were all wearing flannel and jeans and
caterpillar caps when they went to the
Indiana State Fair Trump he shows up
with that ridiculous tie that ridiculous
suit ridiculous shoes ridiculous tan
ridiculous hair and and the Queen's
accent so when I talk to people I'd
always talk to people I'd say how did he
what did he do when he showed up in
Tulare California or Michigan when he
came to Clinton they always said how the
guy was the same thing he had that
grading Queens voice he was completely
overdressed out of you know everybody
was casual he had a suit a tie on tie
was too long the hair was and so what
I'm getting at is he he radiated
authenticity and people wanted that and
the fact that he was able to do it with
an empathy and let's face it he did not
want to play by the Marquess of
Queensbury rules and that would this
tweaking of a traditional Orthodox
message on four or five key issues
created the Trump factor no need to
recount what he's done I mean really we
haven't seen an economy like this since
Reagan three every time you hear of a
new statistic it's always with the
adjective unexpectedly unexpectedly
growth went 3.2 unexpectedly record
minority we unexpectedly record natural
gas poor done expectedly three million
barrels more of oil since he was elected
unexpectedly his judicial appointments
are not like David Souter or Harriet
Miers nomination unexpectedly so he's
been very successful and you know in
your own experience in your circle of
friends and associates maybe even
neutrals and enemies that all of the
people that said that they were not
going to vote for him although they were
conservative in 2016 most of them are
going to vote for him in 2020 and all
the people that were did vote for him in
2016 you don't find very many and said I
just can't do it this time around he
tweets too much no it's like well he's
our sob and so we're gonna vote for him
and I want to talk second part why do
they hate him so much I mean you watch
the bar hearings why what drives a Cory
Booker a Camilla Harris or a Bernie
Sanders or Elizabeth Warren to hate this
person so much to the point of being
self-destructive you know I have a
daughter who didn't vote for him the
first time and she said now he's going
after Elizabeth Warren and I don't like
to lose it with Warren but he's calling
her Foca Honus I started laughing and I
I said could I make it could I try a
joke with you and I said what did he say
about stormy Daniels and she said I'm
not gonna say it and I said go ahead
because horse mouth and she started
laughing so I said it's not just cruel
he is cruel but it's funny and so when
when he said little Marco I turned to my
wife and I said I thought he was six
five he's not and when he said low
energy Jeff I like Jeb Bush but I
thought wow he is low energy and so he
had that ability to to connect with
people in a very and that globe people
crazy not because he was crude and
calling people names and sandbox style
but they were accurate and he and they
stuck the other day I said to my wife I
guess he was in doubt whether to say
creepy or sleepy Joe Biden and she said
did you see the interview with Joe Biden
and his wife and I said no and so I went
and got it well Joe Biden let it lets
his wife answer all the questions
he's very sleepy and I thought wow that
who would ever think that Joe Biden is
sleepy but the point I'm getting at is
that he's a much more complex person
than just somebody who's crass and
Cowell that drives people crazy the
second thing is systematically he
literally doesn't sleep he's got a
little acai he goes I mean he goes to
bed at midnight thinking I didn't do
enough to
to overturn Barack Obama's agenda and he
gets up four hours later and said I'm
gonna do all I can to return brock
obama's agenda systematically whether
it's on that his attitude is for every
liberal progressive judge that obama
appointed for life i'm going on point to
conservatives for every acre of federal
lands or animal put off natural gas
exploration I'm gonna put on two for
every dollar in the defense budget he
cut I'm gonna add to that was his
attitude and where it came from was some
some primordial urge out of the
Manhattan real estate market obviously
but he he is systematically overturning
Obama and that drives people crazy
because after all the night of the
election the New York Times Analytics
said we have one doubt affirm that said
1% for Trump success for six percent and
remember Nate Silver that the Guru he
said Trump has a twenty six percent
chance of winning almost hard and
feathered him for saying that and so
they assumed sixteen years of the
progressive project would have ended
America as we thought it would be much
more transformative than the the New
Deal and yet it didn't happen so there
was this furor that led to who's to
blame well after about a nanosecond of
blaming Hillary for the real culprit
they went into Russian collusion except
that's still going on that was another
reason people hate him
a third is though that if he succeeds
what does that say about the criteria
are the credentials to succeed
reminds me of William Tecumseh Sherman
was considered crazy during the Civil
War he had a mental breakdown and he
said some crazy things at the time when
people were saying the Union was going
to crush the Confederacy he said well
we're gonna have to kill about three
hundred thousand of them and it's gonna
cost us about three hundred thousand
should take about five years they
declared him insane it was exactly what
happened and we have these figures you
know Curtis LeMay or George Patton
and the repulsive some way and but yet
there's something about them that we
can't quite put away and and Trump the
idea was that I think Henry Kissinger
said it best every once in a while we
need a disrupter so he came in and
instead of the establishment you have
all the credentials you went to the
right schools Harvard Yale you got your
law degree Council on Foreign Relations
all the things that are very impressive
we all respect that and yet
how did North Korea get a missile with a
nuclear warhead pointed at us after
six-party talks agreed framework
strategic patient why in the world are
not these wealthy countries living up to
their obligations of 2% GDP NATO's what
happened Obama said they were Free
Riders Trump said they were worthless
and we're gonna get out of NATO and he
got six of them to pay that that's the
way he was looking at and he said we we
all thought that our elite shouldn't
have signed the Iran deal we shouldn't
have got into that crazy Paris climate
Accord it was past time to recognize the
Golan Heights we should remove the
embassy to Jerusalem he just did it and
nobody else would have done it because
they would have been saying on the one
hand on the other hand you can't do this
I'm not arguing for recklessness or even
ignorant of our institutions but at
certain times as Kissinger said you do
need somebody like that 2004 Apple
commercial where the female athlete runs
in they're all looking at Big Brother on
the screen and she throws that hammer
and shatters it that was what Apple was
trying to say it was doing I guess to
Microsoft or something but that's what
he did and finally let's be honest there
was a class element to it that he didn't
sound like he was from Manhattan or even
the Bronx or Brooklyn he sounded like he
was from Queens because he was and he
didn't dress right and he had a whole
array of people that were kind of creepy
whether it was scare Moochie or Omarosa
you know I had known Steve ban and I
really liked him but I remember he used
to come up and he did these
documentaries and
I was at all he had a lot of talking
heads and everyone swear l he'd come to
the Hoover Institution go up at the top
of the tower at my office and I can
remember you had to sign in and a woman
called me very sweet woman at the desk
and said Victor there's a guy from a
motorcycle gang and he's out here with a
leather jacket and he hasn't shaved in a
week and he smelled he has long oily
hair and he's got his whole biker gang
with him and they've got cameras and
what's happening I said that's Steve
Bannon and his crew let him up so and
there was something about that that just
that drove people crazy you know it was
not the the Bush coterie and and there
was a class element that people thought
you know what he's on the DRF list on
party list he just we don't want him
around so I think all of those explained
why people hated him I'd like to finish
though a couple of observations about
2020 and as I said earlier to a group we
as historians we have to look like what
other candidates have done what usually
sinks a candidate either denies him
reelection like George HW Bush or Jimmy
Carter or destroys his second term like
LBJ or George W Bush is you know what
they are they're a sudden economic
downturn I don't think that we'll see a
severe recession before the 2020 every
time we're told that the recession is
looming the job figures are better and
he's even doing more deregulation more
energy development and I was in Houston
this weekend speaking to a group and I
couldn't believe what they were telling
me about Euston being the world's energy
exporter it's just incredible the amount
of activity that's happened just the
last two years or there's an unpopular
war a Vietnam that sunk LBJ or Iraq that
left or a Korea that left Truman and
George W Bush going out very unpopular
or there's a scandal something like the
collusion and there was no collusion so
I don't see any of those three happening
so then you look at traditional criteria
howdy-doo in his first midterms he did
better than Obama and Clinton they
recently lost Clinton lost 53 seats
Obama 62 Clinton 8 Senate seats Obama 6
in 2012
Trump lost 39 and maybe 40 House seats
and he picked up two Senate seats he's
polling in the fifth month of his
presidency exactly where Obama was about
one point less than Clinton Clinton
demolished Bob Dole in the electoral
college as you remember in 96 and Obama
did the same to Mitt Romney as you
remember in 2012 so it it looks like
it's his election to win or lose then
you don't really run in a vacuum we
don't vote on whether we like a
president or not we vote whether he's
better than the alternative sometimes we
have maybe we have I hope we've had good
and better president candidates but
usually we have bad ones and worse ones
and so we're going to vote for Trump
compared to what exactly and this is not
the Democratic Party of my parents I
grew up on a democratic household it's
not the Democratic Party of Bill Clinton
it's not even the Democratic Party of
Hillary Clinton this is a radical
progressive socialist party and any
candidate to get through it and by that
I mean enter the primaries do the
debates and survive the Democratic
convention is going to have a lot of
smelly albatrosses around their neck and
they consist of but are not limited to
abolishing student debt so a guy in a
forklift
who went to work in a muscular job at 18
is supposed to pay for some hipster that
takes three units in Manhattan or San
Francisco every once in a while and runs
up $200,000 in debt I don't think that's
going to be a winning message or
Medicare for everybody so a lot of you
you wait your own tire life until you
turn 62 or 65 or whatever it is and then
you think you get a coverage and then
you discover it goes for everybody you
can just fly
in the United States you can be a
resident and you get the same thing
that's not gonna go over abolishing ice
we're gonna have the mother of all
caravans this summer is not a winning
issue abolishing the electoral college
is not a winning issue abolishing all
student debt is not a winning issue
either is I I guess we would call it
reparations how are you going to take
money from somebody who works at
7-eleven and give it to jay-z and Oprah
it's not gonna work or why would you say
why would you say to Camilla Harris well
your family were slave owners in the
Caribbean and we're gonna give you money
because we feel really bad about it
that's not gonna happen there's no way
it's gonna happen Joe Biden told us out
remember when he he dismissed in his
earlier incarnation reparations in the
70s and I don't think that whatever your
views are on abortion I don't I think
you're queasy about partial-birth
abortion and you realize that when the
baby leaves the birth canal and there's
about 7,000 I'm told a year that that
happens they are individuals with
protection under the US Constitution
they're not we're not going to tolerate
infanticide the United States
[Applause]
another key issue is whether the
Democratic when I grew up
jew-hatred was confined at Klansmen and
Nazis over the last 40 years
anti-semitism is the property of the
left on campus partly because of
changing demography partly because of
the so-called Palestinian issue whatever
the reason is if you look at all of the
major figures that are in the
Progressive Party whether it's
representative Omar who basically said
Jews have ignored it and fenced the tube
in Germans or you have representative
too late who said that we should cut off
all aid to Israel because they don't
represent the only democracy in the
Middle East they don't represent our
values or a Ossie who defended both of
them or everybody kissing the ring at Al
Sharpton it said if the Jews want a war
on your alma you put on this or that but
their garb and come over to my house and
let's get it on or Jesse Jackson who
weighed in who said hi me town or
Reverend Wright who said dim Jews don't
let me talk to Obama anymore or the New
York Times that ran an article right out
of der strmer mr. strikers Nazi memory
we have we hang that guy after the
Nuremberg trials who printed those
cartoons that Nazi apologist and so the
New York Public Times publishes that and
then it explains how it publishes it
without an apology then it apologized
then it does another one Netanyahu with
a selfie as if he's blind and so that's
that party and that's going to be what
Trump is gonna run against and so people
are going to say well I like the economy
I like the restoration of deterrence
there's no finer foreign policy team
than John Bolton and Mike Pompeo Betsy
DeVos is we story in the first fourth
and fifth amendment to campus this is
great and but the tweets bother me but
not as much as representative Omar and
not as much as I'll Sharpton and not as
much as Bernie Sanders socialist agenda
for me and I think that's going to be
determinative if you try to sum up Trump
a historical figure and in the book I
said he was a tragic hero and people got
kind of angry at that especially that
never trumpets but tragic heroes are not
necessarily as I said they're not
Christian like figures they're not
magnanimous necessarily if you read
Sophocles play the Ajax it's right I
wish you would read it it's just don't
it's a story about Donald Trump he he
says I'm the best fighter at Troy after
Achilles was killed and I did everything
for you and they give me no credit this
is terrible why don't they give me
credit and then you want to say because
you're ajax and you're crude and you're
ungainly and and he says well the deep
state Menelaus and and Odysseus and and
Agamemnon they they rig everything it's
not fair to me and then the that's the
entire play sort of what Trump doesn't
get it
that he keeps saying you know if I was
JFK Melania would be treated by Jackie
and you want to say yeah but not JFK and
he's he rages all day long about the
unfairness he said the other day if
Obama had 3% GDP you would all be
worshiping and then he said and Larry
Summers said you did you would never
have three percent and quitman said that
the stock market would crash and Obama
said you need a magic wand and why don't
they give you no they don't give any
credit well they're never gonna give him
credit that's the role of a tragic hero
in classical tragedy but you know him I
hope you know him because I know the
young generation doesn't watch westerns
anymore but you all remember Shane come
back Shane and Shane comes into the
community and the poor sodbusters talk a
great game about the cattle Baron's or
they're gonna someday do something to
them and then they see this guy Shane
and they start to think wow he made he
might be somebody we could use
temporarily and then one of them says
well Shane how do you know the jack
palance figure how do you know him I
don't like that about you and then you
change the sort of look so I'm thinking
in his head you don't like that about me
but not enough to not use me when you
need it in extremis so then when he
kills the bad people people are shocked
that they had to have a gun
all right and he says you can't break
the mold and he takes off and the same
theme is in every John Ford Western
remember The Searchers Ethan Allen John
Wayne my gosh nobody can find Natalie
Wood but John Wayne we think might kill
her when he finds her he didn't but then
he walks out the door and we say well
it's been nice knowing you take care of
it just don't come back same thing with
the Magnificent Seven at the end of that
great movie you remember the village
elder says if if they knew how to they
would thank you because they really are
happy you're here in Steve McQueen's
well they're happy we're leaving too and
then you're Brenner says we lose we
always lose we you get the theme and the
tragic Carol's point is that from time
to time in a society and I mentioned
Sherman and I mentioned Patton and I
mentioned Curtis LeMay I mentioned
Matthew Ridgway we have these figures
that in Orthodox times we would not turn
to but we reach a period of status where
conventional means I'm not talking about
authoritarian dictators or communism or
Nazis I'm talking about people who work
within the Democratic parameters but
they're eccentric or they're unorthodox
we want them to come in and address
things that we want to do because we
feel that they're not invested in the
system and they're they're not afraid to
be pilloried or caricature or they may
not like it but they're not afraid they
keep getting up every morning I don't
know how Trump at 72 with that diet and
that physique and that lack of exercise
I I always say to my wife when I get up
I said is he still alive this morning
because I have a good congressman friend
and I said to him I said so you saw
Donald Trump the other day and he said
yes they did and I said so those are all
lies about his diet
he said no he gave us a hamburger and
then he offered as the haagen-dazs and
he took two and I got one
and then I left at 11:30 and I got a
tweet on my phone at 4:00 a.m. so I
worry about I think everybody is these
supernatural energy and we don't know
how long that's sustainable but the
point is that as this tragic aerial
becomes more successful and in our terms
of the presidency whether the more
successful the economy is the more
stable overseas the more that our allies
start to address some imbalances then
the more we have the luxury or the
margin of error to say you know what
I just don't like that tweet so what I'm
getting at is I think Trump will be
elected re-elected I think he has the
ability to make a lot of overdue changes
that he's already done but I don't think
he's going to be going to funerals with
ex presidents and I don't think the next
presents gonna call up Donald Trump for
advice and that's to our advantage in a
weird way that they won't thank you very
much well it's an odd thing when you
plan an event and you get to the event
and you hope people don't show up
because we way over registered for this
but I think what it tells me is we need
to be doing more of these anybody
[Applause]
before we conclude and we've got some
coffee and refreshments just outside the
door here I want to recognize a few
people first again the person who made
this all possible someone who is a
mentor to me and friend and someone who
is just such a great encouragement dr.
gust a Glee fairy please join me in
thanking him also I want to thank the
Cal Club member and the president of our
Board of Advisors who made this event
here possible tonight Joe Chizik
[Applause]
so again from our little outpost
overlooking the Pacific it's important
for us at the School of Public Policy
not just to be preparing the next
generation of public leaders but to be
doing events like this because nobody
else is going to at least not in Los
Angeles and so we are going to continue
to be that beacon to support and bring
speakers like dr. Victor Davis Hanson to
tell inconvenient truths about where we
are as a state and as a nation but
always grounded in an intellectual
foundation founding principles free
markets and religious liberty because
that's what we do at Pepperdine and
that's what we do at the School of
Public Policy so if you would like to be
a part of that I want our Matt Cutler to
stand up is Matt Matt is waving in the
back if you would like to be on our
email list if you would like to speak
with anybody about how you might support
this rather unique graduate school if
you have a graduating senior in
undergraduate school and you're like boy
you know after four years at Cal I think
they could use 20 months in Malibu you
know maybe a little deprogramming might
be an order please let me know again I
want to thank you all for coming out
tonight this has been such a great
evening the first time that we've taken
this lecture from our Malibu campus here
to downtown Los Angeles I look forward
to being with you again at another night
in a bigger room here in Los Angeles
please travel home safely god bless you
all and good night
[Applause]
you